# Codebook ‘ChangingThePicture_mastersheet.csv’

ChangingThePicture_mastersheet.csv contains metadata for 58.444 releases, including films, TV series and documentaries. Collection of these films started with the 617 films in the Cornell movie dialogues corpus. The selection was then expanded to include all releases that shared one or more crew members with these 617 films, resulting in a collection of 58.444 releases. For this, we used the publicly available IMDb data files.

Please note that the data set has 102.902 rows. This is because every director has their own row - a film with 4 directors will therefore be represented by 4 rows. This makes it easier to work with director-specific data (such as directorPreviousFilmsCount).

#

**UPDATE 30-03-2023**:

A new version of the master sheet (ChangingThePicture_mastersheet2.csv) can be generated by using the updated scripts [2_MOVIES_descriptive_data_analysis_COMPLETE.R](https://github.com/DeJeroenBakker/ChangingThePicture/blob/main/scripts/2_MOVIES_descriptive_data_analysis_COMPLETE.R) and [2_MOVIES_create_master_sheet_COMPLETE.R](https://github.com/DeJeroenBakker/ChangingThePicture/blob/main/scripts/4_MOVIES_create_master_sheet.R), which contains a *much* broader selection of films (1.616.422 titles instead of the earlier 58.444). These films were all released in the same time period as the Cornell data (1922-2022), but do not necessarily have a connection to the crew that worked on the Cornell films.

# 

*tconst (string)*
IMDb release ID. Used in IMDb hyperlinks (e.g. https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0103594).

*titleType (string)*
Release type, e.g. movie, tvSeries, short, videogame.

*primaryTitle (string)*
Main title for the film.

*releaseYear (integer)*
Year in which the release came out (according to IMDb).

*genres (list)*
Comma-separated list of genres, with a maximum of 3.

*nconst_director (string)*
IMDb person ID. This column only contains IDs for movie directors. Used in IMDb hyperlinks (e.g. https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0001008/).

*imdbRating (numeric)*
Average IMDb score for the film.

*meanPreviousIMDbRatingDirector (numeric)*
Mean of IMDb ratings of previous releases by director.

*directorPreviousFilmsCount (integer)*
Number of releases by the director released before the current release.

*crewCount (integer)*
Amount of crew members, as registered in IMDb. Maximum of 10 per film.

*percentageFemaleCrew (numeric)*
The percentage of female crew members for the film. Expressed by number between 0 and 1.

*Rated (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. US age rating of the film (e.g. R, PG-13).

*Writer (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Names of the film writers.

*Actors (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Names of the film actors.

*Plot (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Synopsis of the film plot.

*Language (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Language of the film.

*Country (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Film’s country of origin.

*Awards (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Awards and nominations the film won.

*Metascore (integer)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Metacritic score of the film.

*BoxOffice (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Box office of the film.

*BT.id (string)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. ID for the film in the Bechdel Test data base.

*BT.score (integer)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set.  Bechdel Test score of the film, expressed by a number between 0 and 3. As described on the above-mentioned website: “(1) it has to have at least two women in it, who (2) who talk to each other, about (3) something besides a man.”

*BT.dubious (logical)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. Whether the Bechdel Test score is contested by the community, meaning the score might be unreliable.

*char_percentage_female (numeric)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. The percentage of female characters in the film. Expressed by number between 0 and 1.

*dir_percentage_female (numeric)*
Only for films in the Cornell data set. The percentage of female directors for the film. Expressed by number between 0 and 1.

*nr_nodes (integer)*

*nr_edges (integer)*

*density (numeric)*

*triad_closure (numeric)*

*clustering_coef (numeric)*

*is_connected (logical)*

*centralization_degree (numeric)*

*gender_assortativity (numeric)*
